[music]
Bloomberg Audio Studios podcasts, radio,
news.
[music]
>> Hello and welcome to another episode of
the OddLots podcast. I'm Joe Weisenthal.
>> And I'm Tracy Aloway.
>> Tracy metals. Metals.
>> That's it. That's the episode.
>> That's it. It's the title.
>> No, you're right. There is a lot
happening in the metals space. So, we
have gold above 5,500 an ounce, which is
a record. We have silver above $120 an
ounce, also a record. And now we have
copper at over $14,400
a ton.
>> Yeah. So, this is something that's super
interesting to me and I think it's a
very important dimension, which is that
copper is the ultimate industrial metal,
right? And for you know, Dr. Copper
tells us about the economy. Probably a
little overstated, its reputation, but
it's the ultimate industrial metal.
>> Gold is the ultimate metal with no
industrial uses, right? It's primarily a
store of value, a sort of uh form of
money that's existed for thousands of
years.
>> And then silver is a little bit in the
middle. It's more of a safe haven, but
we know it has it's used in solar, it's
used in photography. Not that that
really exists anymore, but you know what
I was saying. So, it's like it's
interesting to see like why are they all
flying at the exact same time? Yeah, I
was going to say the exact same thing.
So each of these metals historically
would tell you something very specific
about the state of the economy and
copper certainly would be screaming
people are bullish on economic growth.
Silver, you know, something kind of in
the middle and gold, gold soaring is
something that you traditionally
associate with stress points either in
the financial system or the broader
global economy and yet here we are.
Yeah, it's all happening in once and
like you know, you know, you could say
like, oh, dollar debasement, right? And
we know the dollar has been weak against
other currencies. It's not like
inflation as measured, you know, is like
raging hot. So, it's not just a simple
of story of like the dollar becoming
worthless. So, the, you know, the
denominator whatever going up or
whatever the other way around is, etc.
There's something going on with metals.
Maybe they're just the new meme stocks,
etc. But, uh, we have to we have to dig
in.
>> Yeah, let's do it.
>> All right. Well, I have to say we really
do have the perfect guest on the perfect
day. Again, we're recording this the
morning of January 29th. We're going to
try and get it out ASAP. But this
headline, copper surging 10%.
Unbelievable headlines. We've had him on
multiple times in the past, a believer
in super cycles, a vindicated man in
many respects with many of his calls. He
was a Goldman a long time. We're going
to be speaking with the one and only
Jeff Curry who is now a partner at
Carile knows commodities as well as
anyone else we talked to. So Jeff, thank
you so much for coming back on the
Outlaws podcast.
>> Great. Well, thank you for having me.
You know, commodities are up and back in
favor. It was a rough last couple of
years to say the least.
>> What do uh what do we
>> We should just ask is this going to be
the peak?
>> Yeah. Is this the peak? Did we Is uh
Yeah, that's the question. Is this the
peak? Because
>> they're back on. Everyone's going to ask
is this the peak? Oh, did online get the
peak? Cuz they called they ring Jeff
Curry. So, let's just get this out of
the way.
>> By the way, I love that we're in the
foothills of the Himalayas right now.
So, we're not even close to the the real
mountain peaks yet.
>> Really?
>> Yes.
>> Okay. So, I'm going to ask the obvious
question, which we alluded to in the
intro, but why are all three of these
things moving in the same direction all
at once? When you look at the commodity
complex, you take anything that has an
atomic number to it that's in the
periodic table, it's going up right now.
>> Even nickel and zinc have joined the
party.
>> If it is a molecule and it has a carbon
in it, a carbon hydrogen, a CH in it,
it's been struggling. So that includes
hydrocarbons as well as carbohydrates
like corn, wheat, and so forth. So that
space the molecules have been struggling
yet you have the things that are
primarily critical minerals things that
are in the periodic table the atomic
number have all done well and the
fundamentals in copper are not that much
tighter than what you have in oil. that
what's going on in the metal space is
hoarding given the concerns over having
availability of these critical minerals
and you you threw out the idea of
debasement and I want to throw in three
other D's dd dollararization and
diversity to your debasement so
debasement ddollarization and diversity
is what's driving all of these different
metals and when we think about the
ddollarization and that goes back to
2022 when the US and Europeans froze the
central bank assets of Russia. Every
emerging market goes, uhoh, I don't want
to be owning any dollar denominated
assets because look what happened to the
Russians.
>> And as a result, they're moving as fast
as they can out of dollar assets and
into assets that cannot be seized. And
precious metals and metals are part of
that. And then when you have the
geopolitical risk as high as they are
right now on a global basis, whether it
was US cutting off Venezuelan oil supply
to China, India and Europe, or it was
the Chinese cutting off critical mineral
supply to the US and its allies, or it's
Russia cutting off supplies of natural
gas, it's a dangerous time to be
dependent upon foreign commodity supply.
And as a result, we have stockpiling.
And we everybody talks about the squeeze
in silver running it up to $120 an
ounce. The reality is this is a squeeze
by the population of the people in
China. You know, they're hoarding the
silver over concerns around, you know,
export controls and things of that
nature. So you mentioned China just then
and this is exactly what we wanted to
ask you about which is if you stripped
out what's going on in China. How much
of the rally would disappear in
something like gold?
>> I I mean the vast majority of it is not
just China but emerging market central
bank buying basically reduce their
holdings of western bonds that can be
frozen similar to what happened with the
Russians. So, you know, do not
underestimate the impact that China's
had. In fact, if anything, China and the
other emerging markets have squeezed
other participants in the gold market
out
>> and you still have a long ways to go. I
like to point out that in 1970
when Nixon took the US off the gold
standard, central bank reserves of gold
stood at around 40%. Last time I
calculated late day in the last year was
in that 27 to 28%. But the run up in the
last couple of days could be as high as
30 by now. But I think the key message
is there's still a lot more buying by
central banks who diversify themselves
out of dollars.
>> I I'm still a little bit confused. What
is it about silver particularly that's
so desirable right now from the
population in China? Because just let's
talk about hoarding and some of these
issues. It's totally understandable why
China wants to hold certain strategic
assets, right? It wants to accumulate a
lot of oil in part because of defense
purposes because in the event of a war
for whatever reason, they may get shot
out of oil. So, they need a lot. What is
it about silver in the population
context that makes it so desirable? And
by the way, I'm looking at a chart. This
is from two days ago, but the Shanghai
silver premium buyers in China paying
more than $5 an ounce versus everyone
else in the rest of the world. But
explain what is it that's driving this
purchase from the public in China.
>> Okay, first let's talk about its role as
a critical mineral. It goes into the
production solar PV and that makes it as
you pointed out at the beginning 50% an
industrial metal and then 50% of a store
value like gold. So the fact that it has
these dual uses, it's a critical mineral
and important to the electrification
process on a global basis. Remember,
it's a superconductor. Actually, let me
go back to answer your question, Tracy.
We said, what do gold, silver, and
copper all have in common? They're
superconductors.
>> I know people say, "Well, Jeeoff, copper
isn't exactly a definition of a
superconductor. It's not as strong as
silver and gold, but it sits up there in
that electrification process." And so
when we think about silver, it's
critical for the industrial base of
China, given the importance of solar
panels as a part of the industrial
manufacturing process in China. So you
know whether if you're the PBOC or
something like that, you we're going to
be very focused on making sure there's
adequate silver supplies inside of
China. Um, so the fact that it also then
has the store of value like gold and
accessible by many parts of the
population because even at you know
hundred $100 an ounce, $120 an ounce as
where we're this morning, it still makes
it a much more affordable
u you store of value. So I think the two
key points for China and why silver is
so important is its role as a critical
mineral and as a superconductor. And
given the importance of solar panels and
other types of renewable investments to
the Chinese industrial base, having a
secure supply of silver is absolutely
critical to the Chinese economy. Second
of all is when we look at the price of
silver, even at $120 an ounce, it is
still very affordable to many of the
population as a store of value similar
to gold. And also given the recent price
trends, people feel comfortable in
holding it. So it has those two
components that make it critical to the
Chinese economy.
>> Some people would say that like all
right, you can look at all these things
surging and tell a story about
debasement and electrification and what
the future world is going to look like.
Some other people would say, well, you
could tell an even simpler story, which
is that one of these markets is wrong,
right? So [clears throat] maybe copper
sees economic growth going to the moon,
although it seems kind of unlikely to
me. Maybe silver is somewhere in
between. Maybe gold is wrong about the
debasement thesis, whatever. How do we
know that we're just not seeing
investors get this one wrong? People are
just going for the meme coinification of
precious met of metals. Well, I I do
think when we talk about a commodity
super cycle,
>> the sword,
>> which by the way is nothing other than a
commodity capex cycle or a big global
capback cycle. And we're seeing that,
you know, whe it's an investment in
defense, investment into AI, data
centers, the list goes on. This is a
worldcale capex boom we're now entering.
And that typically is when you see the
big commodity super cycles, one in the
70s, one in the 2000s. And we're I mean
just take the defense spending in Europe
alone. It's likely to be 9 trillion
euros over the next decade. To put that
in perspective, the Chinese boom in the
2000s was 10 trillion US. Today it's
about 15. So even just Europe on alone,
we haven't even factored in data centers
and AI. So when that occurs typically
what we see is a rericing a rerating
towards asset heavy industries in
commodities or another way to think
about it is short duration is strangely
is when interest rates are low everybody
thinks oh you would be doing capex
cycles no you do them when the interest
rates are high because the interest
rates are high they're telling you you
need to put money into the ground and so
we're moving into one of these repricing
towards assets heavy industries which is
why it'll ultimately be sustainable
across the entire commodity complex. And
I just want to take a step back and talk
about these repricings because in my
career I've lived through two. The first
one was in that call it O2 through like
04 time period and that's when we coined
the term revenge of the old economy. Old
economy is asset heavy new economy is
asset light. And that asset light in the
late 90s 2000s was really about the
scalability of software. You don't need
to have put a lot of money into the
ground to be able to create growth. And
that was the whole asset light model.
But eventually we ran out of all of
these heavy industries that you need to
make the investments in. And then China
came on the scene and became clear we
need to make those investments. And that
happened over that decade. But that
repricing rerating was a violent process
as you moved out of new economy or into
the old economy. The next time we saw
that was in 1415 where we moved out of
the old economy and into the new
economy.
>> Why? Because it was clear China was at
the end of the track. And if you
remember that time period we go through
there the euro went from like 1.4 to
parody in the course of like 18 months.
I remember the period oil was coming
down $7 a barrel like every other day.
Everybody, what's going on? What's going
on? But I want to make a point here to
get to your point about why is this
sustainable across all these
commodities? And when we look at I'm
going to take a like a private equity
pitch book in 2012 of a Canadian oil
asset. They valued the asset at $110
a barrel. The irr of that asset that
this oil field was 25% at 110. Now fast
forward to 2016 after the macro
repricing. Oil was sitting around $40 a
barrel. Now let's go repric the irr of
that asset. What do you think it is?
Immediate response was people go, "Oh,
it was negative IRR." No, it was around
181 19%. It didn't come down much. Why
is because the Canadian dollar repric so
wages went down. You had a repricing of
the cost of capital. You had a repricing
of copper, iron ore. they all came down
and so your cost basis came down such
that the irr was far more stable over
that repricing and that's ultimately
what we're starting to see happen across
this space right now and I believe we're
in one of these repricings where we're
going to move back into the asset heavy
space I want to make one last point
before moving on this during this it's
going to make this one really different
from ones in the past
>> is I want to go back to the 1960s
because it's similar to to today and
that was at the at least in the modern
data the the first big commodity super
cycle the asset light space back in the
60s was companies like Coca-Cola in fact
all the nifty50 were brands what do
brands have similar to let's say
Microsoft infinitely scalable at zero
marginal cost and so Coca-Cola was the
world's darling right now and all of the
big commodity producers the miners the
oil companies were at the bottom and
then you had the Arab oil embargo create
that catalyst to repric. Now what
happened here is that that's different
today. So you think about that asset
light space was Coca-Cola then and then
in then in in 2000 it was Microsoft and
today it's Google and the hyperscalers.
Now here's where it gets really
different in the power. What's going to
happen now is the asset light space is
getting into the asset heavy space i.e.
These hyperscalers are putting steel
into the ground. And by the way, you're
no longer a asset light infinitely
scalable software company. You're a
minor. You're a oil company. You are a
commodity producer. Your multiple is
going to get rerated. And so what we
have is the asset light space this time
is moving into the asset heavy space in
putting steel in the ground. So this is
going to be a real violent transition.
So you ask about copper and silver and
the rest of these things. What are the
restrictions on their big capex budgets?
Is the availability of transformers.
What are transformers? Big chunks of
copper. And so we have a difference in
this cycle than ones in the past is the
asset light space is colliding in the
physical space at the exact same time.
Which is what I tend to think that this
repricing is going to be more violent,
more sustainable. And what you're going
to see, and it goes to a simple point
that I observed in the 2000s, was when
oil first went up because oh, it's a
bunch of investors buying oil, it sits
at $60 a barrel. That's supernatural
returns. No, you actually had capital
rotate out of the asset light space and
into the oil space during 0405 such that
the cost basis actually rose and there
was no supernatural return. So go Tracy,
back to your point, how sustainable is
this? Well, what we're seeing is all the
capital flowing into this asset heavy
space and it's going to fill the ground
underneath these prices and support them
from a relative cost basis. And so when
we think about $14,000 a ton copper,
doesn't mean these guys are earning
supernatural returns because we see so
much capital moving into the space.
[music]
I absolutely love that comparison of the
software companies to the Coca-Cas. and
this idea that like there are certain
business models that can scale
incredibly with very little physical
needs and I the way you frame that I
thought was uh very helpful to
understand and we've certainly talked a
lot on the podcast about the
hyperscalers getting into the real
business of things and you know going up
the chain and in some cases getting you
know getting into the power production
investing in their own nuclear plants
and hiring power traders. So all of this
feels very real. Let's just like you say
we're in a super cycle. You say we're at
the foothills of the Himalayas. What
does history or your work say about how
big and how far this can go?
>> Well, I mean historically these cycles
last somewhere around 12 years. The one
in the 70s did. The one in the 2000s
did. The one in the '7s from ' 68 to
1980. The one in the 2000s from
essentially 2002 to 2014. A lot of
people say, "Oh, the world's different
today than any of those other points
time." Putting steel in the ground still
takes about the same amount of time.
Technology or no technology. I like to
point out where do you get the the 12
years? You the first three years are
getting people to believe it
>> before they they start to really invest
earnestly. And I would say this one
started in 2020. And so the fact that we
lost two years in 23 and 25 whether it
was copper or oil and part of the reason
for that was the rally in prices was so
steep after that Russian Ukrainian
invasion that the policy response
globally was incredibly swift. I want to
point out that policy response in 22 and
23 was not so much the rise in interest
rates but the creation of supply. And I
say that is because you had inflation
come down everywhere in the world in a
synchronous manner. And it did it
against record commodity demand and
really strong GDP growth in the United
States. What does that tell you? It
simply could not have been interest
rates and the demand side. It had to
come from a supply side. Where did they
get new supply? Russia, Iran, Venezuela.
you know, some of the issues that are
facing a state, they got it through
increased immigration on on the labor
side. There was a lot of ways they
created supply all over the world to be
able to deal with that. Now, the point
this time around, and everybody's bought
into this oil supply gut, we don't have
a problem, is that those easy fixes are
not going to be available next time
around. So, this one's going to take
longer than normal. But I also want to
go why I'm comfortable with this being a
super cycle is all of these things are
all policydriven.
The one in the 70s was due to the LBJ's
war on poverty, the big defense
spending. Sound familiar? And then you
had the Arab oil embargo. If you look at
what happened in the 2000s, it was the
decision to admit China and the WTO, a
policy decision. um here the policy
decisions is the war on free trade and
it's not just the US doing it
everybody's doing it you know curtailing
commodity supply around the world in
fact the three points we laid out in
2020 in fact it was on this show we laid
them out they're still very much valid
today and they were all policy decisions
one was del globalization the war on
free trade I mean if anything it's been
turbocharged now from 5 years ago and
when we think about it it's all policy
decisions and it's not just inside the
United States where we're seeing this,
you know, the Chinese cutting critical
mineral supply, you know, Europeans
focused on, you know, protecting
themselves, defense spending, the list
goes on. Let's go to the second one at
the time, decarbonization or
electrification. And I know a lot of
people are going to look at, oh, well,
didn't the US backtrack on that with,
you know, the recent political shifts?
The answer is absolutely not. the rest
of the world is doubling down on
electrification for both when we think
about the electrification of the world
where it wasn't decarbonization was not
the motivator today it wasn't then and
then going back in time why do I say
that why did China build cutting edge
technologies and nuclear power solar
wind batteries and the rest of it they
did it for energy security kind of goes
into the deglobalization point they want
their own secure energy supply in fact
Carter
coined the term energy transition and
wanted to transition out of oil into
renewables in 1977 not because they
wanted to save the world but because of
energy security. One last point on this
is France lowest carbon footprint in the
world. It didn't get there because it
wanted to save the planet. It got there
because it wanted nuclear power so it
could it was Charles de Gaul decision to
rid itself of the oil trade. So this
story regardless of what's going on in
the political push back and I don't
think green was ever probably the right
way to phrase this. You know it's
renewable. It's a secure source. Nuclear
power is a secure source. Throw data
centers AI all on top of it. It's
turbocharged from the last time we
talked about. And then finally the third
point was redistribution or the war on
income inequality.
>> Yeah K with the K economy. This is alive
and kicking.
Wait, say more about that last point.
>> Well, when we think about commodities,
and actually Tracy, you I've seen you
even make this point that I made back
five years ago was that
>> when you see inflation and you see
commodity demand, it has to be coming
from the low income groups. This is a
point I think people get backwards,
right?
>> Inflation is bad for the high income
groups. And the reason why is because
the low
>> This was a great call that you made, by
the way. Yeah. And the lowincome groups
are the ones that actually think about
this corn. A highinccome person will
consume the same amount of corn at any
point in time. The marginal demand has
to come from the low income groups. And
so when you give them money like fiscal
transfers and you know to keep the
masses happy in certain situations, what
are they going to do? They're going to
spend it. They're going to spend it on
commodities and physical goods and that
ends up creating that inflation. And
then the high income people suffer
because the visit the response by policy
makers to the higher rates is wealth
comes down. And another way to think
about all inflation is is a wealth
transfer between the high income groups
and the low income groups and then they
go out and spend it. And so when we
think about the demand here is that
third one which is this war on income
inequality. is just going to demand more
and more types of transfers to the lower
income groups to be able to deal with
the civil unrest and and it's alive and
kicking everywhere in the world right
now. And so I I would assume you know
the you know if you liked any of these
three stories back in 2020 you got to
love them today.
Just going back to the super cycle
thesis and the role of policy, how do we
know that the importance of a lot of
these metals, the strategic importance,
how do we know that that won't end up
increasing supply faster than we expect?
You know, part of the story, especially
in copper, is that it's not that many
people are pulling it out of the ground
anymore. It takes forever to get a new
mine started. How do we know that
governments aren't just going to make it
easier to get this stuff and so you'll
see a supply response faster than
perhaps you saw previously?
>> Let's go back to my point. You know,
these are 12 year cycles. It's just
putting steel in the ground takes a long
time. Even if you got rid of all the
bureaucracy and red tape, it's going to
take time. But let's go to the critical
minerals. Why does China dominate these?
They did it because the Soviets and the
Americans didn't want to touch the
downstream processes because of not in
my backyard for nimi reasons. I mean,
even the Soviets, let me remind I say
the Soviets because this decision was
made in the 70s. Remember when the EPA,
the super fun sites and all of that, the
Americans and the Soviets used to do
this. They quit doing it and farmed it
out to the Chinese because they didn't
like doing it in their backyards. This
these are really highly toxic processes.
And so if you're going to onshore them
and bring them back, you've got to
figure out technologies to do this in a
way that's going to deal with those nimi
problems that people didn't want to deal
with 50 years ago. Um so it's going to
be very expensive, time consuming.
There's ways to get around it, but it,
you know, whether I heard, you know, you
can build these facilities on army land
in the United States, you don't get any
of the bureaucracy around environmental
problems. But even so, and the last
thing you this stuff you do, you you
know, if you didn't like it in the 70s,
you're still not going to like it today.
Um, so I it's not something that can be
resolved overnight. It's going to take a
long time. It's going to take an
enormous amount of capital, new
technologies, created, rerouting supply
chains around the world. That's why I
say that we're at just the tip of the
iceberg on what needs to be done here,
which is why I think it's going to go
on, you know, for at least another
decade. And I mean one last point about
the super cycle the 70s and the one in
the in the 2000s. They were sequences of
price spikes. They weren't a steady
upward trend. You had one in 73, another
one in 7778 and another one in 80. In
the 2000s you had one in ' 0405, another
one in ' 08, and then the final finale
in 11 late 10 and 11. It was with Libya
and then copper topped 11,000. So
everybody thinks they're like this
steady upward trend in prices and
assets. The reality is their sequence of
price spikes and this one will be more
bubbly in nature.
>> Right?
>> I like to say it's a bubbling cauldron
of supply and demand imbalances. And in
part of this is because of what happened
with the surge in investment around
let's call it the green investment
around net zero 2050. I like to say that
that investment occurred from around
2015 through about 2122.
It created an environment where you have
lots of let's say renewable wind in
places like Germany or Spain, but you
don't have the batteries, the grid and
the rest of it. So what that creates is
these pockets where you can see big
shifts where you have negative prices of
power at some point, explosive prices on
the other side. So the one thing about
this time around, it's going to create
much higher levels of volatility across
the commodity space. I think silver, you
can see you're getting through these
pockets where it'll go up and down. And
you know, whether if it was California
Power in the 2000s and that that
commodity cycle, which sure reminds me
what silver is doing today, is you end
up with an environment in which the
volatility gets higher.
>> The volatility then scares investors
away. The lack of investment then
reinforces the higher volatility. And I
think that that dynamic in this bubbling
cauldron of supply and demand imbalances
is just going to be that much more
vicious this time around than in the
past.
>> Jeff, you're my favorite person to talk
to about commodities. But my second
favorite person to talk to about
commodities is the Uber driver that I
had in 2022 [clears throat] who when he
was dropping me off at Bloomberg, and I
mentioned this on a previous episode,
he's like, "Oh, I have a thesis. some
really long silver because it has all
these industrial uses, but silver is
frequently mined as a byproduct of
copper production and there isn't a lot
of new copper production happening at
this current state and therefore we're
not going to see a big supply response
be elicited on the silver side and so
you're going to get this mega squeeze.
So he's my second favorite one. That was
2022. now in January 2026. I mean
clearly the price was right but this
phenomenon as he described it does that
sound uh pretty accurate to you?
>> Absolutely. I mean with all of these
it's by the way you you can get the
supply. It's not a scarcity of the
commodities whether if it's critical,
metal, even copper. It's like it's the
access. It's it is the political access
to where the resources, but more
importantly, it's the willingness of
capital to provide the money. I like to
say it's not about the supply and demand
of the molecules or of the metric tons
or the bushels. It's about the supply
and demand of the capital used to create
the production. Therein lies the core
problem. And the capital has not moved
in. So Tracy, back to your point, how
long does it go? We haven't even moved
the capital in yet. The capital is still
sitting in the new economy or asset
light world. And the returns, you know,
by the way, I've asked people, I go,
like this was in like 23, 24. I go, hey,
why don't you want to put money into
these these this space? The answer was,
Jeff, I agree with your story. The
problem is the tech space is providing
such very good returns that if I am
underweight the space I got a problem
and I rather be putting the money into
what's out before me. That was the case
in 23 24 25.
>> Just to be clear since the last time we
talked to you there has not been a ton
of activity in terms of let's actually
start digging. No, because the pullback
in late 22 and early 23 was so vicious
across this entire space.
>> Yeah.
>> That the money they looked at it go, I
got beaten up. You know, Curry, you told
me to go in back in 20 and 21, worked
for about a year and a half, I got
absolutely cremated on the backside. I'm
not going to do that again. And so, they
got beaten up over that time period.
Their willingness to go back in and
believe the story is not that high.
They're going to have to see it. And now
that's moves so quick, so fast like it
did in 22 that they're going to look at
it and go, "Oh, I've missed it." And I
think, you know, it's like Tracy's point
is how how much further this go? How
sustainable is it? And I think the key
point there is it's got it's that
volatility is discouraging them. Yeah.
And that's why I tend to think what is
going to force the money into this space
is you're going to have to have the
returns in the asset light tech or
whatever you want to call it world get
to a point that they're go looking at
the old economy going I'm willing to
take that risk and go in it because
that's the only place that has returns.
And when they do that that's when you're
going to end up seeing the rotation. And
I also want to go back to a point here
is the market is so severely underweight
all of this stuff cuz it's been so hated
for so long that when the money rotates
>> anti- gold bug [laughter]
>> but when the money rotates it it's going
to be playing catchup. Whether if it's,
you know, the two and a half percent
waiting of energy in the S&P 500 versus
what a seven or eight percent waiting on
revenues, the market cap is too small
and whether if it's in metals and mining
critical, these things are just so tiny.
It's like we I was talking the other
day, you take FCX and let's see Ivanho
Mines and some of the other smaller
copper producers and what is their
market cap is is altogether 200 billion
versus Nvidia at 4 a.5 trillion. Now all
a sudden you take that money out there
and it has to go chase this space. And
so you're asking how high can it go? you
can go really high because you're
talking about moving trillions of
dollars out of asset light into asset
heavy when nothing's been here for over
a decade.
>> Jeeoff, very very quickly, are there any
risks to the structural super cycle
thesis? Is there any indicator that
you're watching to suggest that okay
maybe it's not going to happen or maybe
it's not going to happen at the moment
that you're currently predicting? I I
first I want to talk about the
difference between equities and
commodities. Commodities are driven by
the real physical supply and demand and
equities in financial markets are driven
by expectations. Expectations can or
cannot happen. I trying to figure out
what the next person's going to do and
what they're going to buy actually can
be modeled and thought through, but it's
less predictable. Long-term supply and
demand balances of commodities, you
know, when you have a problem. By the
way, people don't push back. I mean,
when I think I said on the last time
here, copper is the best trade I've seen
in terms of fundamentals. Stan Duck
Miller recently, he made the same
comment that, hey, it's tight. Yeah,
it's really tight, but it may not work
today, tomorrow, the next day. I know if
I sit on the position and hold it long
enough, eventually you'll get to that
point where it does pay out because, you
know, the physical supply and demand,
the rubber meets the road, and you see
the the rise in prices. Now the question
is can you stay liquid long enough
before that event occurs. So first of
all the reason why I'm so confident into
these stories is the forward on these
markets are incredibly unbalanced
whether if it is in copper you know the
industrial metals you know the critical
minerals oil all of them are really
imbalanced because so that's the thesis
why my confidence now what is the
near-term risk it's not that you know
that you're going to because we're going
to electrify the world you don't have
enough copper to electrify the world the
risk is like the demand for in housing
demand in China collapses, but that
happened in 23 and 24. So, you've
already paid the price on that one. So,
when I think about these risks that
you're talking about, they might come
from the demand side because you cannot
create supply from thin air. So, it has
to be demand coming down. But that
demand coming down just ultimately
delays how long it'll take before you
run into problems. The main reason why
copper didn't perform in that 23 24 time
frame is we underestimated the severity
of the property contraction in China.
And part of that was the high interest
rates west forced the Chinese to keep
interest rates too high because they had
to prevent capital outflow and as a
result it really hurt that property
sector. So that would be, you know, the
it's it's different than the the the
financial markets because the
expectations [music] can change on a
moment and they're hard to forecast.
Bottom line, you need this investment.
>> Jeff Curry, perfect guest, perfect day.
Thank you so much for coming back on
OddLocks.
>> Great. Thank you for having me. It's
quite enjoyable.
>> Truly the perfect guest and congrats on
uh all your structural thesis that seem
[music] to be playing out.
>> Great. Thanks. [laughter] Take care
y'all.
>> [music]
[music]
>> I love that. I mean, Jeff's
[clears throat] just the best.
>> He's so good.
>> I'm so glad we could get him on today in
particular. I should just mention we're
recording on January 29th. The price of
metals is going up so quickly. Who knows
what it's going to be tomorrow. I think
the most po I mean there are so many
powerful ideas and compelling notions.
To my mind one of the strongest ideas
that I think is sort of under discussed
in the debate is the intersection of the
commodity rally and the war on free
trade right and you know we look at
things they're getting a little bit more
expensive here people sort of look like
oh is the tariffs being passed through
etc. But this deeper dynamic that if you
don't have a world of sort of relatively
open trade, then that forces everyone to
stockpile and that forces everyone to
build their own version. And that all
I'm going to build a chip plant here and
I'm going to build a chip plant there
and I'm going to build a chip plant
there because we're also worried you
have that duplication that it's the war
on free trade that whether it's public
or private forces all of this commodity
intensive spending.
>> Yeah. All I'm going to say is it's good
to hold gold and silver coins.
>> Stop rubbing it in. Stop rubbing. Stop
[laughter] rubbing.
>> Well, the problem is it feels good.
>> It feels good. But well, that's the
thing. I don't even know how to sell.
Like I would have to carry a bunch of
gold coins through New York and find a
dealer or something.
>> You know what? We need to take another
trip through the uh Diamond District
where there are plenty of signs on their
windows. We buy gold and so forth.
>> Well, I would actually do an episode on
buying physical gold. Let's do an
episode on selling physical gold. Yeah.
>> Like, how do you actually do that? Are
there certain ways to do it that are
better than others and all of that?
>> I totally do that.
>> Let's do it. That sounds like a great
episode.
>> I have a silver bar somewhere, too. I
need to find that.
>> I like uh I
>> I'm going to bring it in and use it as a
paper weight just to annoy you.
>> Well, I have my uh I have my uh what's
it called? The not the um what's that
metal that I have my tungsten cube
>> that metal that you were obsessed with
and now you've forgotten. I should have
asked if that's my one that's my main
exposure to hard assets is that tungsten
cube that I use paper weight I think so
I mean he said every element in the he
said the the story is that if it's an
element in the periodic table it's gone
up in price and I actually think
tungsten has gone up quite a bit in uh
price but I didn't exactly buy in size I
think my cube cost about $300 or
something like that but
>> okay um shall we leave it there
>> let's leave it there
>> this has been another episode of the Odd
Thoughts podcast I'm Tracy Aloway. You
can follow me at Tracy Aloway.
>> And I'm Joe Weisenthal. You can follow
me at the stalwart. Follow our
producers, Kerman Rodriguez, at Kerman
Arman, Dashel Bennett at Dashbot, and
Kellbrooks at Kalebrooks. For more
OddLots content, go to
bloomberg.com/odlotss.
We have a daily newsletter and all of
our episodes. And you can chat about all
of these topics 24/7 in our Discord,
[music] discord.gg/odlotss.
And if you enjoy Odd Thoughts, if you
[music] like it when we talk about
commodities, then please leave us a
positive review on your favorite podcast
platform. [music] And remember, if you
are a Bloomberg subscriber, you can
listen to all of our episodes absolutely
adree. All you need to do is find the
Bloomberg channel on Apple Podcast
[music] and follow the instructions
there. Thanks for listening.
>> [music]
[music and singing]
[music]